Welcome back everyone to this lecture on hedging in this lecture.
We're going to explore the concept of hedging a bit further.
And keep in mind a lot of what we discuss here is related to cap and are the capital assets pricing
model.
So make sure to review those lectures before viewing this one.
Recall from the capital assets pricing model that beta represents assets exposure to the market basically
its relationship to the way the market moves up or down.
Typically the market is represented by the S&P 500 trading strategies follow Bayda are attractive as
they should operate independently from the market.
In this book what we're going to end up doing is calculating in assets beta and alpha and then show
a simple method of hedging against the beta in an attempt to cancel any risk exposure to the market
that we are strategy's going to work regardless of the way the market is going.
If the market goes up we won't really be affected by it.
We don't gain too much but hopefully if the market goes down we also won't lose that much because we're
trying to hedge against that beta value.
So we're going to choose just a stock such as Apple and then get its alpha value and its beta value
then we can calculate a short position on the market.
In this case will you ASPI which is that exchange traded fund to represent the S&P 500 to eliminate
its exposure to the market and treat only the assets Alpha Okay let's get started.
I'm going to open up a new research notebook in Quanto.
All right so here we have a new research notebook sort of get started with hedging what I'm going to
do a couple of imports here will important up-I is MP.
And then we're also going to save from stat's models import regression and this should feel familiar
to you based off the cap and lectures and then I will also say in poor stat's models thought API as
s.m and then going to import that live pipe plot as Piazzi.
OK so the first thing to do is get some data and luckily there is a nice get pricing function.
So I will say my start dates and you can just use the same Surtsey I do in fact that encourages and
follow along exactly.
But basically were going to get one year of data all of 2016.
So from the 1st of 2016 the 1st of 2017 and then I'm choose some asset go ahead and choose Apple or
the same one on choosing.
And theres this pricing which allows us to essentially in some stock ticker asked for some fields such
as the price and then input the start date star and leps our end date.
And so run that and that should get us the pricing for that asset.
So if you check out what the asset actually looks like its essentially is a time series that has the
date and then the actual price for Apple at that time okay.
And then we're also going to get some sort of benchmark.
So let's go ahead and say benchmark is equal to get pricing and we'll say spy for the S&P 500 or so
she going to do the exact same thing here that the price at the start equal to start.
And then the end dates equal to.
And so that's going to get us the same information for the benchmark.
And what I want to do is just compare the returns real quick.
So we'll say asset returns are equal to asset.
And remember we can get daily returns by simply saying percent change and is going to be plotting this
so I'm going to grab everything beyond the first index point because remember for a percent change or
daily returns that first row is going to be a bunch of null values the same thing here for my benchmark
we'll say percent change one and then we'll get everything past that first one.
OK so let's go ahead and pluck these out.
We'll say whoops so we'll say plot.
And then what are you going to do here is call assets returns plot those out versus time and then we'll
say my bench returns plot those persist time and then let's go ahead and call it legend here.
So we can see them plotted against time.
OK.
So these are my daily returns for Apple as well as the S&P 500.
Now you can see they're not exactly lined up but there are certain times where there's a dip in the
S&P 500 and Apple dip as well particularly You can see this around the July Mark where they both essentially
have the same behavior.
Now there's definitely periods of time where Apple basically doesn't follow the market at all.
Here the green line is the S P 500 and you can see these blue dips and blue peaks.
So that is essentially what we can refer to as the alpha because it's not behaving in line with the
rest of the market.
Now we want to use hedging to basically isolate that behavior.
So in other way that put this out is to essentially create the scatterplot for this so say plot scatter
and I'm going to scatter my benchmark returns versus my asset returns and is given an alpha value because
we do have quite a bit of information here we'll just say like 0.6.
So we get a little bit of see through and we can kind of player on the size I think a 50.
You don't really need to provide the size argument just for making it look a little nicer and let's
give it the label.
So spy returns on the label and then our Y column is going to be the asset return.
In our case those are Apple returns.
So let's run that and see what scatterplot looks like.
OK.
So you can definitely see that there's some sort of relationship between the spire return and the apple
returns.
Generally we can see as the market comes up Apple goes up and as it comes down Apple goes down as well.
But there are some points here that are a little more unrelated to that.
So we're going to see how we can use hedging to kind of isolate that alpha behavior of Apple.
Now in order to do that we're going to do the same thing we did in the cap and lecture and essentially
fit some sort of regression line here so we can get the alpha and beta values so we were going to do
this is the following will say Apple is equal to my asset returns.
And I just want the values and the difference between asset returns and asset returns stock values is
one of them has the time the index.
The other one is just the actual numbers.
So we are going to be using Stout's models.
I just want the numbers and then we can say spy doesn't really matter if it's capitalized or not we'll
say those the bench returns.
And I just want the values there.
So if you take a look at Apple essentially just an array of numbers no longer has time information because
I'm running regression the regression and really care about the time.
So then the other thing to do is say Spike constant and I'm going to add a constant.
That way I can get the intercept which essentially just adds in a bunch of ones for the intercept so
I'll show you what that looks like so I'll say S.M. the at constant on spy.
So if we take a look at the initial spy It's just that value of all these numbers here that of all these
numbers.
And if I take a look at Spike constant you'll notice it's now has this constant 1.
Along with that initial value and this is allow us is going to allow us to get alpha off of this basically
that intercept.
OK so we have spy costs now.
And now what we can do is say model is equal to regression the linear model and we'll use ordinary least
squares pass an apple and then passen Spike constant here and then I can call for this to actually fit
a model to the state of.
And that should run really fast because it's a pretty small dataset it's pretty simple.
So say it modeled up harams and that's going to return these two values right here.
And this is essentially why is equal to x plus B.
So we can do here is say Alpha Beta is equal to model prims.
So I can check out my alpha value and then I can check up my beta value.
So here's my alpha value and here's my big value for the relationship between Apple and the S&P 500
or the market.
Now this by itself doesn't tell us much.
Let's actually plot this sell.
So we're going to have the same scatterplot from before.
I'm going to copy this and paste this down here but we're going to add in a plot to represent that linear
model we just created.
So we'll say have the minimum S&P 500 value is equal to benchmark.
Values men remember this is a Pyra.
And then my maximum value is going to be equal to benchmark returns values max.
So the reason I'm grabbing those is because I want to plot my line for the minimum spy value up to the
maximum buy value.
That way I don't have some huge long red line.
I just want it from here it's around here.
So once I have that I have my minimum and maximum when I'm going to do is say by line is equal to and
P that I'm going to create a linear space the amount of numbers or an array here.
From minimum spy to maximum spy or S&P 500 and then let's say 100 points.
So that essentially gives me a bunch of x values from here to here.
And then we're going to calculate what the actual line value is or that y value based off the alpha
beta.
So just the really simple Weikel expulsed bee line.
So I'll say our value is going to equal to Skyline.
All those x values that are going to multiply it by beta and then add in my alpha.
So against just the cap and model that we talked about for so let's go ahead and run that and whoops
I forgot to set that.
So let's actually plot that out.
We're going to say Pulte plot and then go on a plot by line versus Y.
Let's go ahead and give it the color red.
So now when I run that I can see my line here.
So I can see this model and essentially describing the relationship between the S&P 500 or the market
and Apple returns.
So now we're going to do a show you can implement a really basic hedge essentially taking that bait
of value that you calculated and turning it negative so that they're essentially canceling out any relationship
with the market.
The S&P 500.
So let's go over how to do that actually implementing the hedge.
So it's actually quite simple We'll just say hedged is equal to beta multiplied by our bench returns
just like we did last time plus our asset returns.
Except we're going to do here is we're going to multiply this component by negative 1 say negative 1
times the first component and that should essentially act as if we're cancelling out any effects from
the market because we're essentially shorting that market position to a certain extent to that extent
which we calculated using that regression line.
So then I'm going to say hedged plots.
And I'm going to plot this as Apple with hedge.
And then let's also take the other returns here.
So we'll say asset return.
I'm going to plot that and let's get this an alpha of 0.5.
So there's going to be much stuff stacked on top of each other.
And then let's also get the bench mark returns and we're going to plot that with Alpha equal to 0.5
as well.
And then finally we're going to say Piazzi thought legend and run this and let's make sure everything's
all right here.
So we may have another apple of hedge just not a valid plot type whip's the should be label is equal
to this.
OK.
And you can see this behavior.
So just looking it at an entire year's worth of information may not be particularly useful.
So what I'm going to do is focus on a certain period of time when there's a big drop in the market and
it looks like that happens.
Remember I was saying around July if you take a look at the espie 500 that's the red line.
It essentially drops right here and you can see that normal Apple stock if you have a position entirely
in Apple it will also drop.
But if you hedge it by cancelling out that beta factor as we did here you'll notice it's unaffected
by the drop that much.
So let's go ahead and kind of zoom in here.
So we're going to do is copy this and I'm going to paste it here and then we're going to set the limit
to kind of focus on that summer drop.
So we're going to do the following.
We'll say Piazzi excellent.
And it looks like that happens somewhere around July or June so we'll say 2016 0 6 1 and then let's
have it go to August 2016 0 8 0 1.
Okay.
So playing that out now we see this behavior.
So no what happens here in let's say the middle of June.
There was a big market drop so we can see the S&P 500 this red line had a drop during that kind of mid
June late June period.
And Apple since it's affected by the market also dropped not as much as the market itself but it did
drop.
It had really similar behavior there.
However Apple with the hedge no longer follows that behavior.
It just stays flat.
So we can see we hedged against the market behavior and if we take a look at somewhere around this point
you can see that it still goes in line with the behavior of Apple stock in general.
It's just not as affected by the S&P 500.
So you can see here sort of in late July the S&P 500 was relatively flat.
Apple tends to go up that day as far as its returns.
And the hedged version also goes up because it's only canceling out the portion that's affected by the
market not the portion that's affected by the Apple stock.
So that's kind of the whole point of hedging here.
So we can see here that's not really affected too much by the market.
Now that also goes the other way around.
If there's a big market jump Apple won't gain as much.
So eventually you're going to see that we're sacrificing average returns for volatility.
So we're going to actually show in much more detail in the next lecture.
The effects of hedging by calculating alpha beta for the year 2016 that will create a portfolio and
show you how the actual hedging effects our returns and our standard deviation.
So we're going to jump right back where we left off this time in the next lecture.
I'll see there.